.\" Manpage for gentoo-oam
.TH man 8 "10 May 2015" "1.0" "gentoo-oam man page"

.SH NAME
gentoo-oam \- workflow helpers for a gentoo server

.SH SYNOPSIS
oam-expire \- prune old log files produced by gentoo-oam

oam-fetch \- fetch package sources prior to compilation/installation

oam-genlop \- wrapper around genlop

oam-glsa \- wrapper around glsa-check

oam-qcheck \- runs qcheck and produces a summary of files with potential problems

oam-kernel \- configure, build and install a new kernel

oam-sync \- run a set of sync actions

oam-unmask-write \- run an emerge update operation with --autounmask-write set to 'y'

oam-update \- run a normal set of emerge update actions

oam-uptime \- writes a short system loadavg to the console

oam-version \- write the gentoo-oam version to the console

oam-watch \- watch the various files and status of an update cycle using multitail(1)

oam-weekly \- run sync and update actions (actions defined in /etc/gentoo-oam.conf)

.SH DESCRIPTION
gentoo-oam builds on portage utilities to automate some common
task sequences (referred to here as workflows).
The individual tasks delegate most of the work to portage tools.
.P
.IP \(bu
Common tasks are automated (e.g. weekly update, overlays sync... etc)
.IP \(bu
Everything is logged (under /var/log/oam), and logrotate'd.
.IP \(bu
Overview of actions provided by oam-watch
.IP \(bu
Central configuration is taken from /etc/gentoo-oam.conf
.IP \(bu
The package also acts as a meta package pulling in some very useful portage
utilities (e.g. eix, glsa-check... etc)
.P
An example action list: 
.PP
.RS 0
        oam-sync
.RS 0
        oam-glsa
.RS 0
        oam-fetch
.RS 0
        oam-update
.RS 0
        oam-qcheck
	
.SH COMPONENTS

.P
.B oam-weekly
runs the list of tasks defined by the OAM_WEEKLY setting in /etc/gentoo-oam.conf.
.P

.B oam-sync
runs these actions in sequence:
.RS
.P
.IP \(bu
emaint --auto sync
.IP \(bu
layman --sync=ALL (only if layman is installed)
.IP \(bu
eix-update
.IP \(bu
eix-remote update1 (only if layman is installed)
.IP \(bu
eix-remote add1 (only if layman is installed)
.RE
.P

.B oam-watch
can be used to montor currently running operations.
The multi-pane UI is provided by multitail(1).
.RS
.P
.IP \(bu
Hit 'b' to select a window and then browse the multitail(1) scrollback buffer.
.IP \(bu
Exit the program by typing: <control>-C
.RE
.P
To run oam-watch as a non-root user (recommended), add the user to the portage group.
.P

.B oam-glsa
runs glsa-check, logging the results to /var/log/oam/glsa.log.
Will return 7 if that file is non-empty, 0 otherwise. Returning 7 means that
the workflow will continue processing the remaining tasks.
.P

.B oam-fetch
runs
.B
"emerge --fetchonly"
to pull down source packages prior to the merge step.
.P

.B oam-update
runs these actions in sequence:
.RS
.P
.IP \(bu
emerge world
.IP \(bu
revdep-rebuild
.IP \(bu
python-updater
.IP \(bu
perl-cleaner (if it is installed)
.IP \(bu
emerge @preserved-rebuild (if there are preserved libraries)
.IP \(bu
eclean distfiles (if the OAM_CLEAN_DISTFILES setting is 1)
.RE
.P

.B oam-qcheck
runs qcheck(1), saving all AFK and MD5-DIGEST failures to a (daily) file under
/var/log/oam/qcheck.

.B oam-expire
is called by the installed logrotate control settings. See the OAM_KEEPLOGS and
OAM_QCHECKKEEPLOGS settings.

.B oam-unmask-write
runs oam-fetch with '--autounmask-write y' set.

.B oam-genlop
is a wrapper called by oam-watch to filter the output of 'genlop -c'. See
man genlop(1) / FEATURES if there never seems to be a merge running.

.B oam-version
prints the version of the gentoo-oam to stdout.
.P

.B oam-kernel
is a new kernel manager - it will:
.RS
.IP \(bu
attempt to locate, install, configure and backup .config files
.IP \(bu
build the kernel, modules and rebuild external third party modules
.IP \(bu
optionally install the new kernel
.RE
.P
It will not compile a kernel if any of these conditions are true:
.RS
.IP \(bu
if the kernel version at /usr/src/linux is found installed under /lib/modules
.IP \(bu
if /usr/src/linux/vmlinux exists
.RE
.P
If a .config file is not present under /usr/src/linux, the oam-kernel will attempt to
locate one, checking for files in this order:
.RS
.IP \(bu
/usr/src/linux-$(uname -r)/.config
.IP \(bu
/proc/config.gz
.IP \(bu
/boot/config-$(uname -r)
.IP \(bu
from the oam-kernel maintained git repository at /usr/src/kernel-config.git
.RE
.P
The script will then:
.RS
.IP \(bu
run make -C /usr/src/linux olddefconfig
.IP \(bu
back up the resulting .config to the git repo at /usr/src/kernel-config.git
.IP \(bu
run make -C /usr/src/linux all modules_install
.IP \(bu
oam-merge @module-rebuild
.RE
.P
The resulting kernel will not be automatically installed. This behavior is controlled by
the 
.I
OAM_KERNEL_INSTALL
variable - setting this to 1 will trigger the install following a successful compilation.
.P
Manually running
.I
"oam-kernel install"
will attempt to install the kernel.
.P
.B
Currently the only installation method supported is via efibootmgr(8).

.SH SYSTEM SETTINGS

These settings control the operation of gentoo-oam and are set in /etc/gentoo-oam.conf:
.TP
.BI OAM_EMERGE_OPTS
The parameters passed to emerge for update. See /etc/gentoo-oam.conf for default settings.
.TP
.BI OAM_EMERGE_SYNC
Used to decide if emerge --sync should be run (for example you may not want to
run it if the /usr/portage/distfiles is nfs mounted from another server).
Defaults to 1
.TP
.BI OAM_CLEAN_DISTFILES
Used to decide if eclean distfiles should be run (for example you may not want to
run it if the /usr/portage/distfiles is nfs mounted from another server). Defaults to 1
.TP
.BI OAM_WEEKLY
The actions to perform when the oam-weekly is run. See /etc/gentoo-oam.conf for default settings.
.TP
.BI OAM_ONERROR
When a workflow fails, the program given by this setting will be called with three parameters:
.RS
.IP \(bu 
The name of the workflow script that failed (e.g. oam-weekly)
.IP \(bu
The task belonging to the workflow that failed (e.g. oam-update)
.IP \(bu
The return value from the failed task (e.g. 1)
.P
A workflow is deemed to fail when the return code from any of the tasks is not zero.
If the return code result from the
.I
task or the handler process
is
.I
7
then the workflow will be continued at the next task - if the handler process
returns any other value, then the workflow will be terminated.
.RE
.TP
.BI OAM_LOGDIR
The location where gentoo-oam logs will be sent/stored. Defaults to /var/log/oam
.TP
.BI OAM_KEEPLOGS
The number of sync/update log sets to keep. Defaults to 10
.TP
.BI OAM_QCHECKDIR
The location where qcheck log summaries will be stored. Defaults to /var/log/oam/qcheck
.TP
.BI OAM_QCHECKKEEPLOGS
The number of old qcheck logs to keep. Defaults to 10
.TP
.BI OAM_TS
The date/time format used by gentoo-oam for logging. Defaults to "%Y%m%d:%H:%M:%S"
.TP
.BI OAM_HEARTBEATSLEEP
How long to sleep between printing out the load average and gelop(1) output. Defaults to 60 (seconds).
.TP
.BI OAM_SANDBOXWAIT
How long to wait for the sandbox process to appear before trying to run genlop(1).
.TP
.BI DISPLAY
DISPLAY should be set appropriately if the configured editor needs X11.

.SH WORKFLOW

As an example, to add a new "local" workflow:
.TP
.BI /usr/local/sbin/oam-local
Create the new workflow script by copying the oam-weekly script:
cp /usr/sbin/oam-weekly /usr/local/sbin/oam-local
.TP
.BI /etc/gentoo-oam.d/oam-local.conf
Add the required steps to a new OAM_LOCAL variable defined in: /etc/gentoo-oam.d/oam-local.conf
Note the underscore required in the variable and the minus sign in the configuration file name.
Other settings which need to be specific to this new workflow can be added to this newly created
configuration file and they will override the system settings found in /etc/gentoo-oam.conf
For example a workflow specific OAM_ONERROR handler can be defined for the new workflow here as
well.
.P
Non gentoo-oam steps can be added to the new workflow provided that:
.IP \(bu
The step can be executed as a program requiring no arguments (note that environment
variables can be set/exported in the workflow configuration file);
e.g. "/usr/local/bin/localbackup.sh"
.IP \(bu
The step should ideally its own logging - gentoo-oam will capture output
to /var/oam/oam-local.log (in the case of the example).
.IP \(bu
The step should return 0 to indicate that the action succeeded. If it returns a
non-zero result then the workflow will be aborted at that point (and the on error
handler called if one has been defined).

.P
Example: in /etc/gentoo-oam.d/oam-local.conf (note dummy scripts for illustration purposes):
.PP
.RS 0
OAM_LOCAL="
.RS 0
	localdumpfs.sh
.RS 0
	oam-depclean
.RS 0
	oam-emptytree
.RS 0
	rdumpfs-rota-daily
.RS 0
	localfstrim.sh
.RS 0
	smartctl-start.sh
.RS 0
"
.RS 0
OAM_ONERROR="localonerrorhandler.sh"

.SH FILES

.TP
.BI /etc/gentoo-oam.conf
gentoo-oam system configuration
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/error.log
central locations for error reports
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/glsa.log
results of a glsa-check(1) run following a sync
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/oam.log
log of oam operations started/stopped
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/DATE/blocks.log
log of the errors reported by emerge fetch operation (typically blocks) for one particular day
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/DATE/merge.log
log of the emerge for one particular day
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/DATE/sync.log
log of the oam-sync operation for one particular day
.TP
.BI /usr/share/gentoo-oam/gentoo-oam-functions.sh
common shell functions called by the various oam scripts
.TP
.BI /usr/share/gentoo-oam/gentoo-oam-multitail.conf
some system wide configuration for multitail(1) when called from oam-watch

.SH HELPER PROGRAMS

These oam log files can be viewed while running oam-watch:
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/DATE/blocks.log
by default this file can be viewed from oam-watch when <control>b is pressed
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/error.log
by default this file can be viewed from oam-watch when <control>e is pressed
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/glsa.log
by default this file can be viewed from oam-watch when <control>g is pressed
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/DATE/merge.log
by default this file can be viewed from oam-watch when <control>r is pressed
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/oam.log
by default this file can be viewed from oam-watch when <control>o is pressed
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/DATE/sync.log
by default this file can be viewed from oam-watch when <control>y is pressed
.P
In addition the /var/log/oam directory tree can be browsed by ranger(1) when
<control>n is pressed while in oam-watch(1).

.SH BUGS
Some actions (e.g. emaint, emerge... etc) buffer output. As a result
oam-watch may not show anything going on for long periods.
.P
The perl-cleaner stdout needs more ansi control character filtering.
.P
oam-watch takes two control-C's to exit (pipe stuff).

.SH SEE ALSO
emaint(1), emerge(1), eclean(1), glsa-check(1), qcheck(1), logrotate(8),
eix(1), genlop(1), ts(1), multitail(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Paul Healy

.SH COPYRIGHT
GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 2
