.\" Manpage for gentoo-oam
.TH man 8 "10 July 2015" "1.0" "oam-flow man page"

.SH NAME
oam-flow \- workflow runner for a gentoo server

.SH SYNOPSIS
oam-flow [-d] flowname \- run a specified flow

.SH DESCRIPTION

An flow is made up of an ordered list of stages.
Each stage can have one or more steps which are actions run in parallel.
.PP
Steps can optionally be:
.P
.IP \(bu
run on remote servers (via ssh - password-less key setup required)
.P
.IP \(bu
run detached (the flow will not wait for the action to complete before starting the next stage).

.PP
An example flow definition
.PP
.RS 0
        oam-sync
.RS 0
        oam-glsa
.RS 0
        oam-fetch
.RS 0
        oam-update "laptop:oam-flow weekly &"
.RS 0
        oam-qcheck
.PP
In this example the first three stages run strictly one-after-the-other.
The fourth stage will run two steps in parallel, with the second step running
a remote call to the "laptop" server (detached in this case by the presence of the ampersand).
The final stage (oam-qcheck) will only run after the oam-update has completed.
.PP
The stages/steps for a flow FLOWNAME are defined in the OAM_FLOW variable in: /etc/gentoo-oam.d/FLOWNAME.conf

Other settings specific to the flow can also be added to this configuration file and
they will override the system settings found in /etc/gentoo-oam.conf
.PP
For example a workflow specific OAM_ONERROR handler can be defined for the workflow here as
well.
.P
Non gentoo-oam steps can be added to the new workflow provided that:
.IP \(bu
The step should ideally its own logging - gentoo-oam will capture output
to /var/oam/DATE/FLOWNAME.log
.IP \(bu
The step should return 0 to indicate that the action succeeded. If it returns a
non-zero result then the workflow will be aborted at that point (and the on error
handler called if one has been defined).

.P
Example 1: in /etc/gentoo-oam.d/local.conf (note dummy scripts for illustration purposes):
.PP
.RS 0
OAM_FLOW='
.RS 0
	localdumpfs.sh
.RS 0
	oam-depclean
.RS 0
	oam-emptytree
.RS 0
	rdumpfs-rota-daily
.RS 0
	localfstrim.sh
.RS 0
	smartctl-start.sh
.RS 0
 '
.RS 0
OAM_ONERROR="localonerrorhandler.sh"

.P
Example 2: for an lxc which has bind-mounted access to a host servers portage - in /etc/gentoo-oam.d/my-lxc.conf:
.PP
.RS 0
OAM_FLOW='
.RS 0
	oam-glsa
.RS 0
	oam-layman
.RS 0
	oam-update
.RS 0
	oam-qcheck
.RS 0
 '
.RS 0

.P
Example 3: for a server (myhost) which also hosts an lxc (mylxc) - in /etc/gentoo-oam.d/myhost.conf:
.PP
.RS 0
OAM_FLOW='
.RS 0
        oam-sync
.RS 0
        oam-glsa oam-fetch
.RS 0
        oam-update
.RS 0
        oam-clean oam-qcheck "mylxc:oam-go &"
.RS 0
        oam-kernel
.RS 0
 '
.RS 0
This waits until the host update completes and then runs the lxc update in parallel with
the host clean/qcheck jobs.

.SH FILES

.TP
.BI /etc/gentoo-oam.conf
gentoo-oam system configuration
.TP
.BI /etc/gentoo-oam.d/weekly.conf
example configuration - "weekly" flow

.SH BUGS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
gentoo-oam(8), emaint(1), emerge(1), eclean(1), glsa-check(1), qcheck(1), logrotate(8),
eix(1), genlop(1), ts(1), multitail(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Paul Healy

.SH COPYRIGHT
GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 2
