.\" Manpage for oam
.TH man 8 "10 May 2015" "1.0" "oam man page"

.SH NAME
oam \- oam command line interface driver program

.SH SYNOPSIS

oam go \- execute the default flow

oam inv <flow-name> \- invoke the list of tasks specified by flow-name

oam watch \- monitor the current task run

.SH DESCRIPTION
oam automates common maintaince tasks on a gentoo server.
Tasks delegate most of their work to portage tools.
.P
.IP \(bu
Common tasks are automated (e.g. weekly update, syncing overlays ... etc)
.IP \(bu
Everything is logged (by default under /var/log/oam), and logrotate'd.
.IP \(bu
Realtime monitoring is provided (see multitail(1)):
.B
"oam watch"
.IP \(bu
Configuration in "/etc/oam/oam.yaml" (can be overridden in the environment)
.P
An example flow: 
.PP
.RS 0
        sync
.RS 0
        glsa
.RS 0
        fetch
.RS 0
        update
.RS 0
        qcheck

.SH QUICKSTART

Starting from scratch:
.IP \(bu
Examine /etc/oam/oam.yaml for anything that you need to localise on your server
.IP \(bu
As root run:
.B
"oam inv weekly"
.IP \(bu
In another console run:
.B
"oam watch"
.P

.SH SYSTEM SETTINGS

These settings control the operation of oam and override settings in /etc/oam/oam.yaml:
.TP
.BI OAM_EMERGE_OPTS
The parameters passed to emerge for update. See /etc/oam/oam.yaml for default settings.
.TP
.BI OAM_FLOW
The default flow to run when "oam go" is run. See /etc/oam/oam.yaml for default settings.
.TP
.BI OAM_LOGDIR
The location where oam logs will be sent/stored. Defaults to /var/log/oam
.TP
.BI OAM_HEARTBEATSLEEP
How long to sleep between printing out the load average and gelop(1) output. Defaults to 60 (seconds).
.TP
.BI OAM_SANDBOXWAIT
How long to wait for the sandbox process to appear before trying to run genlop(1).

.SH FILES

.TP
.BI /etc/oam/oam.yaml
oam system configuration
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/DATE/error.log
central locations for error reports
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/DATE/glsa.log
results of a glsa-check(1) run following a sync
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/DATE/oam.log
log of oam operations
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/DATE/blocks.log
log of the errors reported by emerge's (typically blocks) for one particular day
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/DATE/merge.log
log of the emerge for one particular day
.TP
.BI /var/log/oam/DATE/sync.log
log of the oam-sync operation for one particular day

.SH BUGS
There are some.

.SH SEE ALSO
emaint(1), emerge(1), eclean(1), glsa-check(1), qcheck(1), logrotate(8),
eix(1), genlop(1), ts(1), multitail(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Paul Healy

.SH COPYRIGHT
GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 2
